---
layout: post
title: Demand prediction and better commissioning for SEND and ASC
date: 2017-09-05
author: fran
comments: true
categories: [data science, send, asc, witan]
---

As we all know, one big aspect of delivering effective services under
financial pressure is making the right commissioning decisions, based
on a combination of expected demand, and local policy choices about
how to meet that demand in the best way for the local community. We've
also seen that according to research by the Local Government
Information Unit with The Municipal Journal, 65% of authorities expect
to have to use their reserves [this
year](http://www.lgiu.org.uk/report/2017-state-of-local-government-finance-survey/),
putting extra urgency on smart commissioning. This blog post explains
more about how we are trying to tackle that challenge.

<!--more-->

We recently posted a video showing the experience for decision-makers
of using [our new special educational needs and disability services
(SEND) demand
model](/data%20science/send/witan/video/2017/08/17/witan-send.html). We
built a mathematical model to predict needs in that particular service
line as it's one of the most challenging to get right: the complex
combination of multiple types of need, multiple options for school
placements, and an ever-changing landscape of incoming demand (for
example, the recent rise in autism diagnoses) means that simpler
forecasting approaches can’t give commissioners the numbers they need:
to make the right decisions about what places to commission; whether
to serve certain need types within or outside the authority's
boundaries; and what types of school facilities and capacity they
should be creating decades into the future. We achieve this
probabilistically, by learning about what has happened in the past and
running thousands of simulations of possible futures, based on an
authority’s local offer and need profile, and their own costs.

We’re now supporting a number of authorities with their SEND demand
modelling and commissioning thoughts, and moving on to developing new
models for an even bigger challenge: Adult Social Care

## Adult Social Care: the next frontier

Even more than SEND, Adult Social Care is an area which combines high
human impact (where good commissioning makes a huge positive
difference to people’s lives); complex and ever-evolving demand; and
continued financial pressures. Building on the success of our SEND
modelling, we’re now developing an Adult Social Care demand model, to
help with the same kind of demand forecasting and commissioning
choices, particularly for older adults who need home care or
residential services as they age. This forecasting is important both
in the near term (getting the right staffing profiles and availability
to deal with this winter), and in the mid to long term (defining and
market-making for the right residential and reablement placements to
be available for expected demand), helping commissioners to get the
right mix of block and spot provision in the right specialisms. We’re
really excited about the potential for this model to help local
authority and health partners to co-ordinate the right decisions for
their local community, leading to the best possible outcomes for older
people.

If you’re interested in using our existing SEND model, or in sharing
what you’d want from the new Adult Social Care model, please do get in
touch - we’d love to hear from you at
[theteam@mastodonc.com](mailto:theteam@mastodonc.com).
