---
layout: post
title: Data Scientist Job
date: 2017-06-05
author: fran
comments: true
categories: [jobs, data science]
---

We’re looking for a coder/data scientist to help us develop an
exciting city modelling product, as well as our existing data science
projects. More details are below.

<!--more-->

**Who we are**

Mastodon C are agile big data specialists. We offer the open source
technology platform and the skills to help our clients realise the
potential of their data. We work in particular in applying data to
areas where we think we can have a positive impact on the world.

**Responsibilities**

You will act as an inhouse data scientist and developer for a major
new product, applying big data, open data, and analytics technologies
to improve city planning. You will also support other data science
projects, where we help a variety of clients to solve their business
problems by developing big data and data science solutions.

You will in particular be responsible for:
 * Interacting with users and clients to understand their challenges
   and goals
 * Working closely with the rest of the team to write and deploy your
   models - you will be specialising in the data science element of
   our work, but will collaborate with others to integrate your models
   into a wider codebase
 * Thinking through and proposing approaches to solve clients’
   modelling problems, by listening to the user’s needs, the available
   data, possible methods to apply, and working within time and money
   constraints to suggest the best way forwards
 * Disseminating knowledge around data science and modelling throughout
   the team

You will work day-to-day with the software development team, business
team, and other data scientists who you will collaborate with to
design and implement solutions both within Witan and in other
projects.


**Who you are**

Our ideal person for this role would:

*Must Have:*

 * At least Bachelors level degree in a numerate subject, or be very
   comfortable with the mathematics of data science
 * Be confident and comfortable writing data science code in at least
   one language, and happy to learn Clojure, our language of
   choice. Our team come from a variety of technical backgrounds using
   Java, Python, R, and other languages.
 * Have a broad background knowledge of data science approaches, for
   example machine learning, statistics.
 * Be keen to learn about new areas of data science and city modelling
 * Be excited to share their knowledge with the team, and keen to work
   in a collaborative environment
 * Have good communication skills - able to listen to users and
   clients and understand their challenges and goals, able to
   communicate complex structures and models to non-technical users
 * Be interested in and excited about applying data and analytics to
   important issues in the world

*Nice to Have:*

 * Have had exposure to a wide range of data science and forecasting
   challenges, and know the pros and cons of various model approaches
 * Have experience with ETL or big data technologies (spark, hadoop,
   other)
 * Experience in Clojure

**Salary and work environment**

We are based in Bermondsey, London. We’re happy to discuss part-remote
or part-time arrangements if those are important for you.

We’re a small and very consultative and interactive team, which means
that every member has a big influence on how things run and has a lot
of control over the way they work.

The salary for this role is between £30,000 and £40,000 per year.

If this looks like your kind of a job, please contact us at
theteam@mastodonc.com with a CV (and, if possible, recent code or
project examples) and we’ll talk.

Please note that you need to be eligible to work in the UK to apply
for this position.

No agents please.
